+++
title = "The Professional"
date = "2025-12-31"
draft = false

description = "and His Exposition of the Uncouth"
+++

On Sundays, the staff aired out the wards, as the stale air can be demanding on old lungs, and the only person who seemed to be taking advantage of the retirement of the cloth barriers that separated each bed was the grandparent. He had never given me a satisfactory answer as to why he belonged, and it was a mystery shared by all inhabitants of the ward. As I said, he didn’t seem to suggest mortality, except for his mild dementia and his eroded legs. This led me to suspect he had been dishonest about the severity of his condition.

I say he took advantage of the circumstance typical of Sundays, as he would lean over (he was in the adjacent unit) to show me photos of the grandchild. Presumably, the child had been hospitalized for quite some time—on one of the upper floors, as I recall. This becomes quite the nuisance, as one must, at all times, surreptitiously sneak around the ward for fear of being found by the grandparent. In such unfortunate encounters, one is forced to hear the man’s drivel about the child, which may last for an indefinite amount of time. In this way, it would only make sense that I, when possible, avoided the man at all cost. Being seen with a man who perturbs the polite atmosphere of the hospital does one’s reputation no good. Besides, talking to the man seemed to aggravate my own symptoms, which is another reason to avoid him.

Unfortunately, encountering people belonging to this indulgent class has been quite the common occurrence. As I recall, it wasn’t so long ago that some family—a full entourage, I might add—visited a patient on the opposite side of the ward. They refused to leave after visiting hours, making a major fuss; some fight had broken out, according to one source. The incident interrupted my peaceful sleep. It is my only wish to be left alone, undisturbed, as we all hope for a full recovery, and it is most unfortunate these ill-mannered individuals would enter the premises of this sanctuary only to cause trouble.

There had been another incident—one which still merits rumor to this day—though it took place some time ago, when I was first admitted. In fact, on that day, I encountered the subject of the rumor: a decrepit man like the rest of us, in arguably worse condition. He was visiting his wife, dressed prim and proper, the ends of his cuffs revealing hands with some fingers missing here and there. Despite his deficit in dexterity, he had somehow tied a bow, which he later revealed was one of the first gifts his wife had given him. Of course, I didn’t ask for this information. He imposed himself upon me without ever being prompted, which, I must point out, speaks to his lack of good manners. As such, he forced himself upon me in some corridor to boast about the letter he was soon to recite in front of her:

_I want to embrace you and never let you go, to tell you that I'd be here for as long as you'd like; I want to kiss you so that you’d understand the things I can’t say; I want you to come to me and cry when it gets too hard; I want you simply because I do and for no reason than you being you..._

A trite love letter; so it went on like this for quite some time. Of course, I nodded agreeably, as well-mannered gentlemen do—a quality that seems to be in decline nowadays. After bothering me a little longer, he proceeded upstairs. His retirement lightened my mood, and the rest of the day proceeded as any day would.

The next day, the news reached even the furthest corners of the hospital. Apparently, the man with the missing fingers had fallen out of bed while engaging in the clandestine act and aroused the nurses on call. Of course, this upset me duly, at the thought of such uncouth manners being so easily forgiven within the premises. Moreover, the image of two decrepit, broken, sinewy figures having crippled sex proved most revolting.

This is precisely why you mustn't take my words lightly when I say I had been encountering indulgent people with increasing frequency. Such pathetic attitudes that ignore propriety and dignity are the culmination of illiteracy in all things virtuous and moral. Now that we are on the subject, I must assert that this world needs more people utterly obsessed with what is right and wrong. This is the only way to live a righteous life, which is my firm conviction—no, an axiom, vindicated with old age. These sorts of indulgences are most childish, desires that should have been abandoned in youth. See, the lack of discipline begets naivety in these pathetic forms.

But I digress. I was to take my medication as dinner would soon arrive. My chest had been aching, which is quite normal for my condition, though the frequency with which it had been assaulting me increased—most likely attributable to these recent perturbations. Accordingly, I increased the dosage of my medications within limits, without notifying the physicians, since they didn’t seem too convinced of my decline upon my requesting an examination. In any case, I swallowed the medication with the provided mug of water. This helped a little.

Though this thought is completely tangential, I was reminded of a certain memory upon drinking from this mug. I must have been sixteen at the time. The cafe was a small one—postmodern, with ample use of wood—which, I must say, gave the place an unplaceable warmth. We had decided to study together because we figured the method to be most efficient. She had ordered a cup of green tea; I’m unsure why, as there were many other options, all of which were arguably better. Of course, she didn’t like the drink in particular, and I was soon offered the lukewarm cup, which I was keen on finishing, as it wouldn’t do anyone good to let it go to waste. I sipped from the opposite side, of course, as it would sully my reputation to do anything else. Now I wonder what I ordered to drink, but I can’t seem to remember. I’m unsure why...

But I couldn’t let myself be distracted by such matters, as I had to finish my duties for the day. One must be disciplined to avoid the pathetic attitudes I speak of. My rumination was brought to a complete close when a physician arrived to show me the monochrome cross sections of my chest. I had the utmost respect for the people of this profession, as they exhibit the highest forms of righteousness—particularly the few that lodge within the premises of the hospital. Fulfillment of the highest class must fill these chosen individuals.

The dishonest grandparent made some jest about the scans, a remark that merited no response. The physician took his exit, most likely due to the grandparent’s sudden interjection and the prospect of being caught in his useless drivel. Perhaps the scans had reminded him; as the physician had accurately predicted, the grandparent started his inane soliloquy. I heard, within the short incoherent conversations and blips of jargon, the nurses discussing the child on the upper floor this grandparent spoke of. From what I could discern, it never sounded too good, and I suppose the nurses refrained from informing the grandparent—frightened of exacerbating a condition that was never serious to begin with.

To stabilize this episode of sudden enthusiasm, the providers calmed the man down with the usual prescription, which fortunately put him into a state of induced listlessness. I admit, he sometimes seemed even more confused than when he was awake, but this was likely attributable to side effects specific to him rather than the general effects of the drug. He stared up at the ceilings, perpetually recounting their foam tiles, as if his illness had left him empty—though this is merely faulty inference on my behalf.

It was later that night that my sleep was once again interrupted, though, as I came to find, for a completely different reason. The staircase leading to the upper floors was located on the closer side of the ward, and any noise originating from those stairs would easily wake me. As I say, it was the eerie sound of chattering teeth that disturbed me, and it was unfortunately loud enough to make me check the source.

I found the grandparent collapsed a few steps up the dark stairs, clinging, shivering, gasping, chattering. He had clearly attempted to climb, but failed in doing so, his legs most likely undermining the attempt. Surprisingly, this hadn’t aroused the staff on call, which made the scene all the more bleak. The hour was inconvenient for anyone involved, so I decided it best to resolve the situation as swiftly as I could, bringing the drooling man to his feet. It is only right for me to offer help in such situations, as doing so relieves the physicians of additional work and prevents further perturbations.

As I helped this defeated body back into bed, I noticed the bruise that had formed on his face upon the fall, swelling with an unprecedented intensity. His flesh would fester beneath the purple. He should have known better than to believe so strongly in such folly, perpetually driveling about some child teetering on the precipice of death. It is only natural to be thrown off the promontory into the sea of madness by such a lack of discipline. He should’ve let go a long time ago.

The cold machine next to the man kept his warm body beating. The curtains by the bed fluttered, akin to the veil of a dress, though revealing no moon. Water streaked down my cheeks, and I sat there, unsure of their origins, though I had tried my best to rationalize such a sentiment.